but the fact is that you know my name
and i don't know you art for art's sake
is like gin for jin's sake vodka for
vodka's sake
etc um i've recently addressed
the fact that part of my role here on
youtube
is criticism and i'm not ashamed of that
i don't apologize for that
i think that in the same way that we
have to recognize the role of the critic
in art the role of the critic and cinema
is important the role of the critic
in politics can be much more important
so i
had my um i had a youtube video
playing and it was uh mr eisenhower's
latest uh video and i'll put a link to
it um down below
and uh anyway he said and hit my ears
pricked
up because he said something that i
profoundly disagree with
i've made this comparison before if you
look at some of the
youtube channels that are devoted to
comic books mainstream with dc comics
marvel comics superhero comics
they really do have more of a community
than veganism does in 2017.
really i'm not being sarcastic i'm not
if you take a look they have conferences
they have meetings
they buy airplane tickets they do
fundraisers they have donations
they they auction things off and they
raise the money
to have a convention and then people fly
there i think you can look at the game
of thrones
fan community but yeah sure the comic
books are a really good example
they have more elements of a real
community
than vegans ever have had and maybe ever
will
what is he talking about what is he
talking about
it's an unfair comparison uh comparing
like veganism to
game of thrones or uh you know marvel
comics or
something like that it's uh you know
those things are hugely popular veganism
is a
you know it's a niche thing you know
it's a niche
usually thing like would you compare
veganism to football
oh food football we have a great sense
of community more so than veganism well
there's a surprise
and you can look through the comments
below their channels you go through
their controversies sometimes those guys
do have their own scandals
but not like this and i don't see this
level of um
you know mean-spirited vitriolic
you know ultimately just malicious in
fighting within those other
digital demi mods i think 90 of the
people
just don't care about what you know 90
percent of vegans don't care about
youtube
don't care about the stuff that's going
on youtube most
most of us find it mildly entertaining
and
and that's about it but to say
we don't have a community come on dude
come on
like in in 2005
this was a flipping 12 years ago i rode
a bicycle from
los angeles to new york to raise money
for animal sanctuaries and
to raise the profile of veganism it's
called the ride for goals
and um and a couple of years later after
i got it all edited
the girl who uh the lady who runs the
london v festival i was still living in
england then she called me up she goes
oh patrick you know we'd love to have
your um
we'd love to we'd love to to screen your
film at the london vegan festival and i
thought oh wow that's pretty cool
and i remember uh and i don't know man
he talks about like oh god the community
that london vegan festival
is massive it's like thousands and
thousands and thousands of people
go to the london v it is rams it is ram
with people
it is hugely popular and people come
from all over the country
in the uk to go to the london vegan
festival not only that
there's like thousands and thousands of
vegan festivals
all over the world every year
we have to question shall we say
commercial
but populist activities like this
all right i don't really know the
population of the greater los angeles
area i've been to los angeles where you
draw the line
around the city of los angeles is a very
difficult question
millions and millions of people go far
beyond the limits
of what is defined as los angeles okay
fine i'll google it
greater la population
maybe 20 million people
all right so los angeles you could call
it 4 million
and apparently you could call it 19 or
20 million
depending on where you stop counting uh
at the la county limits at the suburban
limits
so on and so forth and you know they
hold this event called
vegfest and they say on average
they get 5000 people per year attending
they boast that in 2018 they had over 10
000 visitors
all right the images you see on screen
here are actually from the 2019
event i have grave doubts
that the real number of people attending
is
ten thousand i have grave doubts that
the number of people who attended
in 2019 at least was even 5 000 people
i don't think that's what i'm what i'm
looking at here i've had to deal with
disputes like this all my life even in
the
period i can barely remember before i
became vegan
people can visualize what it looks like
to have 50 000 people all in the same
place at the same time
they can visualize what it looks like
to have 10 000 people all together
in the same place at the same time and
if you need to jog their memory
you can go to google image search and
look for examples
of a stadium with 10 000 seats an arena
a concert hall an opera hall a theater
with 10 000 seats
and show them this is what it looks like
when you have 10 000 people
together in one place at one time but
when we're talking about political
protests
conferences events it's very strange
how in our culture people are so willing
and so eager to lie to themselves
and lie to others for a blatantly
political purpose you have to keep in
mind
there is a very real commercial
incentive
to lie about exaggerate or at least
round up your estimate if you are
operating
you know a festival of this kind and
you're trying to get both donors
and participating restaurants and
businesses to support it
and that's fundamentally why social
media is so
important you know as a reality check
pro veg international i'm sure they tell
their donors
that this event was a huge success they
say oh
we had people attend this conference
from around the world
we had all these wonderful speakers and
they gave they delivered these important
papers this was a major conference
it's gonna save the planet and save the
animals thank you please keep on
donating
millions of dollars and you know what
the [ __ ] stops here
the [ __ ] stops with the number of
views
you get on youtube i'm dead serious
about that
and look guys you know i'm not on an ego
trip
this applies to me both ways when you
look at how many views i had on that
video
vegans were more hated than jehovah's
witnesses
okay it tells you something i reached an
audience with that
i said hey look i have a message that
really matters to me
i want to present my critique of what's
wrong
with vegan activism uh in the year 2019
that was
i was over one year ago i don't know
those 2018 2019
you know and 2 600 people
got interested and we're willing to
listen that means
something you know what else it may mean
that there isn't a very big audience for
that message
you know that may be the maximum number
attainable or possible
because not very many people care
if you are putting on a well-funded
uh populist vegan festival
in los angeles and you could attract
you know a huge number of people 4
million downtown
maybe 19 or 20 million in the greater
los angeles area
and you're boasting that you attract 5
000 people
and when i look at the pictures when i
look at the film
footage i think um that looks like a
really generous estimate to say that
there were 5 000 people there
okay maybe that tells you
maybe that tells you something about
just how little
interest there is in veganism in los
angeles
whether you're at the ostensibly
respectable academic
button-up end of the spectrum the
moderately respectable
populist commercial merchandising and
food sales
industry end of the spectrum or if
you're way over on the lunatic fringe
with the people who are engaged in acts
of sabotage and civil disobedience going
to prison
whatever now that seems to me like a bit
of a communism you know
anyway so i remember i
had like an auditorium i had like an
hour to screen my film
and uh and sea shepherd were on before
me
and uh and that was before they had
their like tv show and they were like
really popular but still there was a lot
of people in the auditorium and they
finished and then it was me to screen
that
screen my cycling film all right and uh
it was 991
there was no one here there was no one
in the auditorium but uh it was just me
brother and a few friends
and uh so i put the film on turn the
lights out and the film was like edited
like a 40 minute edit because i thought
well i'll do a q a and then i thought
well i shouldn't have done a 40 minute
edit because
there's no one to ask questions
afterwards
and anyway so the film finished right
and then this was like massive cheer
went up
massive cheer and i turned around and
the whole flipping auditorium was
full of people like and i'm standing
there i put the picture up i'm standing
there
on the on the on on the bank of the
river um
in new york and uh i was just it was
just amazing so
don't bloody tell me there's no
community dude
come on and i don't see this level of
um you know mean-spirited
vitriolic you know
ultimately just malicious infighting
within those other digital demi mods
people say things online that they would
never say to like a person's face if
they met them in person
would they people say awful things
online
awful awful things that they would never
say but it's a is a quick thing
one should always be polite all the time
especially online i'll make a point of
that
and you i think it really is worthwhile
to look across the table look at what
the guys in comic books have going on
and ask yourself why can't we have that
and uh where is it going to start
where are you more of a more of a
constructive attitude
towards making the most out of what we
got here in veganism in terms of human
resources
can it start with this can it start with
you
watching this video right now can it
start with something
you can do today or tomorrow or sitting
down with your calendar
and looking ahead to the rest of this
year
i don't know what the future of veganism
is but the future of veganism
is not doreen writer it's not vegan
cheetah
it's not a community built on
slander and defamation and
get skinny quick 35
what a ebooks patronizing thing to say
really
really thousands and thousands and
thousands
of vegans put on events every year out
in the real world not living in like
youtube land
i mean like two weeks ago we had the
uh houston veg fest and i went along
with my niece
and the place was like rams and those
organizers
put in like flipping probably hundreds
of hours
to like organize that thing and you
can't turn around like oh what you're
doing like nothing happens
no not in your world but in the real
world people flipping
people really really put themselves out
dude the gal
when i moved to galveston three years
ago i started the galveston vegan group
and on the facebook page we've got like
over 100
people and we put on an acoustic jam and
uh
and a vegan like potluck
40 flipping people now it's really
getting really popular and it's a really
really good
you know fun fun thing so
yeah that's what i'm doing what are you
doing
get out in the real so look
carefully at the crowd shot
and think about what he's just claimed
what he's just told you
the place was rammed the place was round
was it
how many thousand people are in that
crowd
how many hundred or how many
dozens he's not even
aware of the extent to which he's lying
he doesn't question the extent to which
his claims
are really ridiculous and in a sense
even quite tragic come on
i'll tell you i'll tell you what and it
was rand that was so popular
it was so popular thousands of people
and let's just refer back to the little
bit he's told us about his autobiography
this guy is some kind of accomplished
documentary filmmaker
i ended my video asking people to
positively
reach out to one another and collaborate
he never did that
for me
[Music]
what are we gonna do what are we gonna
do bloody patronizing right
he could have said hey i see you're a
younger guy with a youtube channel who
cares about veganism
and he's an older guy who under some
circumstances
made at least one documentary film that
played at least one documentary film
festival i don't know anything else
with the rest of his career as a
filmmaker maybe
i really did have something positive to
learn from him maybe he could have
really helped me
and help this youtube channel maybe we
could have worked together
to do something really positive for the
vegan movement and make the world a
better place
but no he can't react that way he has to
turn around
and boast he has to pridefully claim
that these conferences where vegans just
meet up
and pat themselves in the back where
just a few hundred or a few thousand
people show up and say
hey let's all celebrate that we're
changing the world
he has to claim that that's actually
more efficacious
and more important than my youtube
channel
reaching 70 000 people a month
with really in-depth really substantive
discussions
much more substantive discussions than
you're gonna get from a street protest
from outreach
or even at these types of uh conferences
and
finger food festivals but
there's a lot of money in this your game
the moral of this story
sadly is that veganism in the year 2020
is cash rich and talent
poor millions and millions of dollars
are being spent
year after year the money is being spent
by the wrong people for the wrong
reasons
with the wrong motivations